=head1 NAME

perl-web-markup - A pure-perl HTML and XML processor

=head1 MODULES

Following modules are available:

=over 4

=item L<Web::HTML::Parser>

An HTML parser.

=item L<Web::XML::Parser>

An XML parser.

=item L<Web::HTML::Serializer>

An HTML serializer.

=item L<Web::XML::Serializer>

An XML serializer.

=item L<Web::XPath::Parser>

An XPath 1.0 parser.

=item L<Web::XPath::Evaluator>

An XPath 1.0 evaluator.

=item L<Web::HTML::Table>

An implementation of HTML table model.

=item L<Web::HTML::Microdata>

An implementation of HTML microdata.

=item L<Web::RDF::XML::Parser>

An RDF/XML parser.

=item L<Web::Feed::Parser>

A RSS and Atom parser.

=item L<Web::HTML::Validator>

A DOM conformance checker (for HTML and XML).

=back

=head1 DEPENDENCY

These modules require Perl 5.10 or later.  They requires L<Encode>,
which is included in the Perl distribution, and modules from the
perl-web-encodings package
<https://github.com/manakai/perl-web-encodings>, which is a submodule
of the Git repository.  The L<Web::RDF::XML::Parser> module has more
submodule dependency (see its documentation for details).

In addition, a DOM implementation is required as input (and output) to
these modules, although there is no direct dependency.  For the XPath
modules, see L<Web::XPath::Evaluator> for its requirements on the DOM
implementation.  For other modules, the DOM implementation must
support a subset of features defined in DOM Standard, DOM Parsing and
Serialization Standard, DOM3 Core, DOM Document Type Definitions, DOM
Perl Binding, and manakai's DOM Extensions.  An example of such a DOM
implementation is the L<Web::DOM> modules in the perl-web-dom package
<https://github.com/manakai/perl-web-dom>.

Validator modules such as L<Web::HTML::Validator> and
L<Web::RDF::Checker> require additional external modules; see their
documentations.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The perl-web-dom package <https://github.com/manakai/perl-web-dom>
implements DOM interfaces, which contains standard ways to parse or
serialize HTML/XML documents.  They are implemented using the
perl-web-markup package.

=head1 HISTORY

Most of these modules are originally developed under the name of
"Whatpm" in 2007-2008
<https://suika.suikawiki.org/www/markup/html/whatpm/readme> and then
merged into the manakai-core package
<https://suika.suikawiki.org/www/manakai-core/doc/web/>.  Those
modules are split again into this separate package in 2013.

=head1 DEVELOPMENT

The latest version of these modules are available at the GitHub
repository: <https://github.com/manakai/perl-web-markup>.

Test results can be reviewed at Travis CI
<https://travis-ci.org/manakai/perl-web-markup>.

Known issues are recorded at <https://manakai.g.hatena.ne.jp/task/4/>
and GitHub Issues.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2007-2016 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
