=head1 NAME

Web::XPath::Evaluator - XPath 1.0 evaluator

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Web::XPath::Evaluator;
  $eval = Web::XPath::Evaluator->new;
  $value = $eval->evaluate ($parsed_expression);

=head1 METHODS

Following methods are available:

=over 4

=item $eval = Web::XPath::Evaluator->new

Return a new evaluator.

=item $code = $eval->onerror

=item $eval->onerror ($new_code)

Get or set the error handler for the evaluator.  Any error, as well as
warning and information, is reported to the handler.  See
L<Whatpm::Errors>
<https://github.com/wakaba/manakai/blob/master/lib/Whatpm/Errors.pod>
for more information.

=item $package = $eval->function_library

=item $eval->function_library ($package)

Get or set the package name of the function library used to evaluate
the XPath expression.  It must be a Perl package name string, which
identifies L<Web::XPath::FunctionLibrary>, its subclass, or
equivalent.  The module is C<require>d if necessary.  See
L<Web::XPath::FunctionLibrary> for details.

=item $eval->set_variable ($nsurl, $ln, $value)

Add a variable binding.  The first and second arguments must be a Perl
string representing the namespace URL and the local name of the
variable.  The namespace URL can be C<undef>, representing the null
namespace.  The third argument must be an XPath value.

If the variable is already bound to another value, the old binding is
removed.

=item $value = $eval->evaluate ($parsed_expr, $context_node, context_size => $n, context_position => $n)

Evaluate an expression.

The first argument must be a parsed XPath 1.0 expression data
structure (See L<Web::XPath::Parser>).

The second argument must be the context node.

Additionally, following key/value pairs can be specified:
C<context_size> is a Perl integer used as the context size;
C<context_position> is a Perl integer used as the context position.
The context size must be greater than or equal to the context
position.  The context position must be positive.  Their default is
C<1>.

Any error during the evaluation of the expression is reported through
the C<onerror> handler.  If a fatal error is encountered, the method
returns C<undef>.  Otherwise, the result XPath value of the evaluation
is returned.

=item $value = $self->to_xpath_boolean ($boolean)

=item $value = $self->to_xpath_number ($number)

=item $value = $self->to_xpath_string ($string)

Convert the specified Perl boolean, number, or string to equivalent
XPath value.

=item $value = $self->to_xpath_node_set ([$node, $node, ...])

Create an XPath node-set from the specified array reference of zero or
more nodes.

=item $value = $self->to_boolean ($value)

=item $value = $self->to_number ($value)

=item $value = $self->to_string ($value)

Convert the specified XPath value into boolean, number, or string, by
the C<boolean>, C<number()>, or C<string()> function, respectively.
The argument must be an XPath value.  If the argument is already of
the specified type, it is returned as is.  Otherwise a new value is
returned.

Any error during the conversion is reported through the C<onerror>
handler.  If a fatal error is encountered, the method returns
C<undef>.

=item $value = $self->to_string_value ($node)

Return an XPath string value representing the string-value of the
specified node.  The argument must be a node.

=item $self->sort_node_set ($value)

Sort the nodes in the node-set.  The argument must be an XPath value.
If the value is not a node-set, it is unchanged.  If the nodes are
already sorted, it is unchanged.  Otherwise, the nodes are sorted in
place by document order or reverse document order, depending on the
C<reversed> flag of the value.

=back

=head1 VALUES

An XPath 1.0 value is represented as a hash reference.

=head2 Boolean

A boolean value is represented as following key/value pairs: C<type>
is C<boolean>; C<value> is a Perl boolean value, representing the
boolean value.

=head2 Number

A number value is represented as following key/value pairs: C<type> is
C<number>; C<value> is a Perl number, representing the number value.
Note that C<value> can be a number value representing C<nan>, C<-nan>,
C<inf>, C<-inf>, C<0>, or C<-0>.

=head2 String

A string value is represented as following key/value pairs: C<type> is
C<string>; C<value> is a Perl string, representing the string value.
Note that if C<value> is not utf8-flagged, it is interpreted as
Latin-1 string as usual.

=head2 Node-set

A node-set value is represented as following key/value pairs: C<type>
is C<node-set>; C<value> is an array reference, containing the nodes
in the node-set; C<unordered> is a Perl boolean value, representing
whether the nodes are unsorted or not; C<reversed> is a Perl boolean
value, representing whether the nodes are sorted in reverse order or
not.

If C<unordered> is true, whether the nodes in the C<value> is sorted
or not is unknown.  Otherwise, if C<reversed> is true, the nodes in
the C<value> is sorted in reverse document order.  Otherwise, the
nodes in the C<value> is sorted in document order.

=back

Any other non-basic data type is not supported.

=head1 NODES

The node must be a DOM node, whose implementation conforming the
manakai's DOM Perl binding specification.  In addition, the
implementation must also support the C<manakaiIsHTML> attribute of the
C<Document> interface and the C<manakaiTagName> attribute of the
C<Node> interface.  L<Web::DOM::Document> and related modules in the
web-dom package <https://github.com/manakai/perl-web-dom> is such a
DOM implementation.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Web::XPath::Parser>.

=head1 SPECIFICATIONS

=over 4

=item XPATH

XML Path Language (XPath) Version 1.0 <http://www.w3.org/TR/xpath/>.

XML Path Language (XPath) Version 1.0 Specification Errata
<http://www.w3.org/1999/11/REC-xpath-19991116-errata/>.

HTML - Interactions with XPath and XSLT
<http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/#interactions-with-xpath-and-xslt>.

If an operand of C<=> or C<!=> is an object of a type other than the
four basic types, it is converted in a way that is dependent on that
type.  It is an error if it is not defined.

The document order is defined in terms of the
C<compareDocumentPosition> method of the C<Node> interface [DOM] as
follows.  If C<nodeA.compareDocumentPosition (nodeB) &
DOCUMENT_POSITION_PRECEDING> is true, I<nodeA> preceeds I<nodeB>.
Otherwise, if C<nodeA.compareDocumentPosition (nodeB) &
DOCUMENT_POSITION_FOLLOWING> is true, I<nodeA> follows I<nodeB>.
Otherwise, they are same in document order.

If an error is found during the evaluation of an expression, the
evaluation MUST be immediately aborted.

=item DOM

DOM Standard <http://dom.spec.whatwg.org/>.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2013 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
