=head1 NAME

Web::XPath::FunctionLibrary - XPath 1.0 Core Function Library

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Web::XPath::FunctionLibrary> module contains an implementation
of the XPath 1.0 Core Function Library.  It can be used directly, or
by subclassing and adding more functions.

=head1 METHODS

The module that can be used as the function library in parsing or
evaluating of expressions must implement the following class methods:

=over 4

=item [$min, $max] = Web::XPath::FunctionLibrary->get_argument_number ($nsurl, $ln)

Return whether the specified function is defined or not, and if
defined, the minimum and maximum numbers of the arguments for the
function.

This method is invoked with two character string arguments: namespace
URL and local name.  If the namespace URL is C<undef>, it represents
the null namespace.  Note that the empty string is different from
C<undef>.  If the function identified by the namespace URL and local
name is not defined, the method must return C<undef>.

If the function is defined, the method must return an array reference
with two non-negative integers.  The first number represents the
minimum number of arguments.  The second number represents the maximum
number of arguments.  The first number must be less than or equal to
the second number.

The method must not throw any exception.  It must always return
consistent result.

=item $code = Web::XPath::FunctionLibrary->get_code ($nsurl, $ln)

Return the implementation of the specified function.

This method is invoked with two character string arguments: namespace
URL and local name.  If the namespace URL is C<undef>, it represents
the null namespace.  Note that the empty string is different from
C<undef>.  If the function identified by the namespace URL and local
name is not defined, the method must return C<undef>.

If the function is defined, the method must return a code reference.
The code reference will be invoked with three arguments: I<$self>,
I<$args>, and I<$context>.

The I<$self> argument is the L<Web::XPath::Evaluator> object on which
the XPath expression is evaluated.  The code may invoke (non-private)
methods on the object, and it may report any error by invoking the C<<
$self->onerror >> code reference.

The I<$args> argument is an array reference, containing the XPath
values obtained by evaluating the argument expressions of the
function, in order.  The code must not modify them.

The I<$context> argument is a hash reference, containing the following
key/value pairs: C<node> is the context node; C<size> is the context
size, represented as a Perl number; C<position> is the context
position, represented as a Perl number.  The code must not modify
them.

If the code reports a must-level error, it may return the C<undef>
value.  If the C<undef> value is returned, the evaluation is
immediately terminated.  Otherwise, the code must return an XPath
value.  The value is used as the return value of the function.

See L<Web::XPath::Evaluator> for details on how XPath values are
represented.

The method and the code reference returned by the method must not
throw any exception.  They must always return consistent result.

=back

These methods must return consistent result.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

This module implements the following XPath functions from the XPath
1.0 Core Function Library: C<boolean()>, C<ceiling()>, C<concat()>,
C<contains()>, C<false()>, C<floor()>, C<lang()>,
C<normalize-space()>, C<not()>, C<number()>, C<round()>,
C<starts-with()>, C<string()>, C<string-length()>, C<substring()>,
C<substring-after()>, C<substring-before()>, C<sum()>, C<translate()>,
and C<true()>.

=head2 Handling of surrogate characters

Web browsers use UTF-16 as its internal character code, while Perl
uses UTF-8.  This difference affects behavior of some functions when
arguments or relevant values contain one or more surrogate code points
and/or characters that are represented by surrogate code points in
UTF-16 (i.e. U+D800-DFFF and U+10000-U+10FFFF).

Following functions are implemented in terms of characters:
C<concat()>, C<string()>, and C<translate()>, and string match
operations (including the C<=> operation, the C<substring-before()>
function and so on).  In other words, they are implemented in the same
way as XPath implementations strictly conforming to the XPath 1.0
specification and their result can be different from those in Web
browsers.

Following functions are implemented in terms of code points:
C<string-length()> and C<substring()>.  That is, their results are
same as Web browsers and can be different from strict XPath 1.0
implementations.

For more information on handling of surrogates, see manakai's DOM Perl
Binding specification [MANAKAI].

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Web::XPath::Parser>, L<Web::XPath::Evaluator>.

=head1 SPECIFICATIONS

=over 4

=item XPATH

XML Path Language (XPath) Version 1.0 <http://www.w3.org/TR/xpath/>.

XML Path Language (XPath) Version 1.0 Specification Errata
<http://www.w3.org/1999/11/REC-xpath-19991116-errata/>.

For the purpose of the C<number()> function, whitespace is defined as
the production rule C<S> [XML].

It is an error if the argument to the C<number()>, C<boolean()>, or
C<string()> function is not of a supported type.

For the purpose of the C<lang()> function, the C<xml:lang> attribute
value MUST be compared ASCII case-insensitively.

For the purpose of the C<sum()> function, convertion of a string to a
number MUST be done by the same way as the C<number()> function, and
the calculation of the sum MUST be done by adding the numbers to
positive zero in the same way as the C<+> operator.

For the purpose of the C<id()> function, the element whose unique ID
is I<i> MUST be obtained by the following steps:

  1. If I<i> is the empty string, return null and abort these steps.

  2. Otherwise, evaluate C</descendant-or-self::*[dom:id () = $i][1]>
     where C<dom:id()> is a function that returns the unique
     identifier (ID) of the element [DOM] and I<$i> is string I<i>.

  3. If the previous step results in an empty node-set, return null.
     Otherwise, return the node in the node-set.

For the purpose of the C<substring()> function and the
C<string-length()> function, UTF-16 code units MUST be considered as
characters.

For a node whose type is not defined by XPath 1.0 specification, the
string-value of the node is the empty string.  It has no
expanded-name.

=item XML

Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 <http://www.w3.org/TR/xml/>.

=item DOM

DOM Standard <http://dom.spec.whatwg.org/>.

=item MANAKAI

manakai's DOM Perl Binding
<http://suika.suikawiki.org/~wakaba/wiki/sw/n/manakai's%20DOM%20Perl%20Binding>.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2013 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
