=head1 NAME

Web::XPath::VariableBindings - Set of XPath variable bindings

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Web::XPath::VariableBindings> module is a set of variable
bindings used to parse and evaluate XPath 1.0 expressions.  This
class, its subclass, or any class that implements the required methods
as described in later section can be used as the variable bindings for
the L<Web::XPath::Parser> and L<Web::XPath::Evaluator> modules.

In many cases the C<Web::XPath::VariableBindings> module is useful
enough.  However, it sometimes desired to implement a custom variable
bindings module, e.g. for sharing XSLT variable bindings among XPath
and XSLT implementations.

=head1 METHODS

The C<Web::XPath::VariableBindings> module has the C<new> class
method, which returns a new instance of the empty variable bindings.

The module that can be used as the set of variable bindings in parsing
or evaluating of expressions must implement the following instance
methods:

=over 4

=item $boolean = $vars->has_variable ($nsurl, $ln)

Return whether the specified variable is defined or not.  It is
invoked with two Perl character string arguments: namespace URL and
local name.  If the namespace URL is C<undef>, it represents the null
namespace.  Note that the empty string is different from C<undef>.  It
must return whether the variable identified by the namespace URL and
local name is defined or not, as a Perl boolean value.  It must not
throw an exception.  It must return consistent result.

=item $value = $vars->get_variable ($nsurl, $ln)

Return the value bound to the specified variable, if any.  It is
invoked with two Perl character string arguments: namespace URL and
local name.  If the namespace URL is C<undef>, it represents the null
namespace.  Note that the empty string is different from C<undef>.  It
must return the XPath value bound to the variable identified by the
namespace URL and local name, if any.  If the variable is not bound to
any value, it must return C<undef>.  It must not throw an exception.
It must return consistent result.

=item $vars->set_variable ($nsurl, $ln, $value)

Add a variable binding.  The first and second arguments must be a Perl
character string representing the namespace URL and the local name of
the variable.  If the namespace URL is C<undef>, it represents the
null namespace.  The third argument must be an XPath value.  It must
not throw an exception.  It must return consistent result.

If the variable is already bound to another value, the old binding is
removed.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Web::XPath::Parser>, L<Web::XPath::Evaluator>.

See L<Web::XPath::Evaluator> for XPath value data structures.

=head1 SPECIFICATION

=over 4

=item XPATH

XML Path Language (XPath) Version 1.0 <http://www.w3.org/TR/xpath/>.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2013 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
